README.md, before:

# Easyp

`easyp` is a cli tool for workflows with `proto` files.

For now, it's just linter and package manager, but... who knows, who knows...

Just testing

## Community

### Official site

https://easyp.tech/

### Telegram chat

https://t.me/easyptech

## Install

### Build from source

1. Clone repository
2. Build
```bash
go build ./cmd/easyp
```

### Install from github

```bash
go install github.com/easyp-tech/easyp/cmd/easyp@latest
```

## Linter

`easyp` support `buf's` linter rules.

### Usage

```bash
easyp lint -cfg example.easyp.yaml
```

## Package manager

### Usage

* download

```bash
easyp -cfg example.easyp.yaml mod download
```

Read your dependencies from `easyp.lock` file and install them.


If `easyp.lock` is empty or doesn't exist `easyp` read dependencies from `easyp.yaml` config file (`deps` section).

* update
```bash
easyp -cfg example.easyp.yaml mod update
```

Read dependencies from `easyp.yaml` config file and ignore `easyp.lock` file.

Could be used for update versions: set version in `easyp.yaml` file and run `update` command.

* vendor
```bash
easyp -cfg example.easyp.yaml mod vendor
```

Copy all your proto files dependencies to local dir (like `go mod vendor` command).


### Configuration

Write list of your dependencies in `easyp.yaml` config with in section `deps`.

For example:

```yaml
deps:
  - github.com/googleapis/googleapis@common-protos-1_3_1
```

**NOTE:** Use only git tag or full hash of commit version.

By default, `easyp` use `$HOME/.easyp` dir to storage cache and downloaded modules, you could override it with `EASYPPATH` env var.

## Auto-completion

### zsh auto-completion

1. Add the following line to your ~/.zshrc startup script:

```bash
source <(easyp completion zsh)
```

2. Re-launch your shell or run:

```bash
source ~/.zshrc
```

### Bash auto-completion

1. Install [bash-completion](https://github.com/scop/bash-completion#installation) and add the software to your `~/.bashrc`.
2. Add the following line to your ~/.bashrc startup script:

```bash
source <(easyp completion bash)
```

3. Re-launch your shell or run:

```bash
source ~/.bashrc
```

### Roadmap

* [x] Implement support for `buf.work.yaml` config
* [ ] Calc hash sum, store it and compare (i.e go.sum)
* [ ] Code generation

Commit message:

This is a combination of 23 commits.
example

example

example

example

in test

some proto files

after generate

Move InstructionParser from validate rule

read local

read against

read data

check if service was deleted

check if service was deleted

check rpc

check rpc

check rpc

check rpc

check rpc

base for message

remove

base for message

base for message

base for message

base for message

message

message

message

message

message

message

message

message

message

nested

paths

read imports

read imports

rename

rename

parse

change collect alg

rename

rename

duplicate

duplicate

duplicate

remove

remove

oneof checking

enum

imports check

imports check

imports check

optional checking

adapter

some optimize

some optimize

some optimize

enum

chore: Some helpers

chore: Some helpers

walker

walker

after rebase

Add api

Add api

Add api

Add api

chore: Refactor proto info reader

fix: Cycles imports

read current

Add config

add config

Add flag

Add flag

Add flag

Add flag

migrate

migrate

migrate

readme

readme

readme

README.md, after:

# Easyp

`easyp` is a cli tool for workflows with `proto` files.

For now, it's just linter and package manager, but... who knows, who knows...

Just testing

## Community

### Official site

https://easyp.tech/

### Telegram chat

https://t.me/easyptech

## Install

### Build from source

1. Clone repository
2. Build
```bash
go build ./cmd/easyp
```

### Install from github

```bash
go install github.com/easyp-tech/easyp/cmd/easyp@latest
```

## Linter

`easyp` support `buf's` linter rules.

### Usage

```bash
easyp lint -cfg example.easyp.yaml
```
## Breaking check

Checking your current API on backward compatibility with API from another branch.

### Usage

```bash
easyp breaking --against $BRANCH_TO_COMPARE_WITH
```

## Package manager

### Usage

* download

```bash
easyp -cfg example.easyp.yaml mod download
```

Read your dependencies from `easyp.lock` file and install them.


If `easyp.lock` is empty or doesn't exist `easyp` read dependencies from `easyp.yaml` config file (`deps` section).

* update
```bash
easyp -cfg example.easyp.yaml mod update
```

Read dependencies from `easyp.yaml` config file and ignore `easyp.lock` file.

Could be used for update versions: set version in `easyp.yaml` file and run `update` command.

* vendor
```bash
easyp -cfg example.easyp.yaml mod vendor
```

Copy all your proto files dependencies to local dir (like `go mod vendor` command).


### Configuration

Write list of your dependencies in `easyp.yaml` config with in section `deps`.

For example:

```yaml
deps:
  - github.com/googleapis/googleapis@common-protos-1_3_1
```

**NOTE:** Use only git tag or full hash of commit version.

By default, `easyp` use `$HOME/.easyp` dir to storage cache and downloaded modules, you could override it with `EASYPPATH` env var.

## Auto-completion

### zsh auto-completion

1. Add the following line to your ~/.zshrc startup script:

```bash
source <(easyp completion zsh)
```

2. Re-launch your shell or run:

```bash
source ~/.zshrc
```

### Bash auto-completion

1. Install [bash-completion](https://github.com/scop/bash-completion#installation) and add the software to your `~/.bashrc`.
2. Add the following line to your ~/.bashrc startup script:

```bash
source <(easyp completion bash)
```

3. Re-launch your shell or run:

```bash
source ~/.bashrc
```
